A case to this video we're going to look at how we can select distinct values from our table so you
can see here.
I selected coffee origin from products and you can see it returned seven values.
So the coffee origin for each of our products.
So you can see we have Colombia Colombia Costa Rica Indonesia FERPA Indonesia for Lanka.
So there's some repeated data here.
We have Colombia twice we have Indonesia twice.
So what if you just wanted to find out how many different types of coffee you're stocking in your store.
So from how many different countries of origin.
Well to do that you can add the distinct keyword in your select statement so you can select this thing.
It's coffee origin from products.
So it's going to select any only distinct values from you from your column name from coffee origin.
So let's run that now.
And you can see it's just returned five values this time.
So it's removed one of the Columbia's and it's removed one of the Indonesians.
So now we just have distinct countries of origin and we can see we stop coffee from five different countries
so we can all see distinct statements and combine it with a where clause.
So you can see here I've selected customer ID from orders where all the time is between the first and
the 28 for February 2017.
So if I select that is going to return each customer ID every time they ordered in February 2017.
So you can see the first order was by custom of 14 and then 10 Xandra and you can see 14 has turned
up again.
So he's come in on a different day and he's ordered another coffee.
So you can see we've got two date in this result as well.
But what if you just wanted to know how many distinct customers bought from your store in February.
Wow.
To do that you can select distinct customer I.D. from orders where order time is between the first and
the 28 for February 2017.
So let's run that now and you can see we still have 14 first and then we have 10 but there's no going
to be no repeated customer IDs in this in this result.
So you can see 14 hasn't turned up again so we've just got distinct customer IDs and we can see who's
ordered in February actually the first order was from customer id one.
So here you see I've only had one one call him but we can also add a second column to our select statement.
Select select distinct customer id Colma Product ID.
So we're going to see which which coffee they ordered and let's see if that changes the result.
So here we have no repeated customer ID.
Now let's select distinct custom ID product ID from orders in February 2017 and you can see here that
we now have.
So the first one is 1 1 and then we have 14 and then 10 20 in the customer ID field but we can see we
have 14 again.
So we have some good customer IDs even though we selected stink customer ID and that's because they've
ordered different products.
So you can see here we selected product idea as well and you can see this is 14:3 and the first one
was 14 2.
So 14:2 and 14:3 are different.
So they're distinct series return both values you know select statement and you can see another example
of this is 8 so we have customer ideate and customer id 8.
But because the product ID is different.
So a 1 and a free.
They've both been returned but let's say Customer ID came in one day and ordered product ID 3.
And then the next day he came and again placed another order for part of 23.
So we have two orders for customer id 8 and 23.
They would not both show up in this statement because they are not distinct.
And similarly here you can see we have repeated product ID so we have put a tidy one here and we have
product ID one here as well but because the customer ID is distinct or different they both show up in
the results this is how we select distinct values from columns in select statements.